docs: prompts and context (#5264)
forcedotcom/salesforcedx-vscode: docs/_articles/en/einstein/einstein-example-prompts.md

---
title: Effective Prompt Writing
lang: en
---

## Overview

> A prompt is natural language text that you craft to communicate with an AI. The response that’s generated depends on the quality of the prompt. Use prompt engineering to define the prompt and then refine it until you get a response that works for you. For E4D responses, prompt quality determines the quality of the boilerplate Apex code that’s generated.

Reviewer: :) Can we remove "boilerplate" here also?

## About Generated Code Quality

As with all LLM-based products, the technology behind Einstein for Developers is still new. The generated output often requires editing to be customized for your individual project. Some responses aren't optimal. We'd love to hear feedback from you on the generated output through the History & Feedback Panel in the IDE. Your feedback is critical to the continuous training of our large language model (LLM) during the beta program.

We strongly encourage you to let us know when you see examples of less optimal code, so that we can continue to improve generated responses. We recommend tools such as [Apex PMD](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=chuckjonas.apex-pmd) (already in your Salesforce Extension Pack) and [Salesforce Code Analyzer](https://forcedotcom.github.io/sfdx-scanner/) to ensure the quality of your generated code.

## Project Context and Grounding

In addition to your instructions, the response generated by an AI depends on the context that your instruction is grounded with. The CodeGen2.5 model has been trained on Apex data and grounded with the context of Apex programming best practices.

> To extract accurate and relevant information from the model, first run **SFDX:Refresh SObjects Definitions** to gather org metadata in the form of object definitions into your project beyond running your query. Then ground your prompts further with org context awareness to generate a high-quality response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To extract accurate and relevant information from the model, first run **SFDX:Refresh SObjects Definitions** to gather org metadata in the form of object definitions into your project before running your query. Then ground your prompts further with org context awareness to generate a high-quality response.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To extract accurate and relevant information from the model, first run **SFDX:Refresh SObjects Definitions** to gather org metadata in the form of object definitions into your project beyond running your query. Then use the following tips to help ground your prompts further with org context awareness to generate a high-quality response.
```

Making a small distinction that the user is not grounding the results themselves but should try to use the following tips for more contextualized responses

Currently the CodeGen2.5 model can pick up on the following context from your project and prompt:

- Apex code that’s present in your project in Apex class files (`.cls`).
- Custom objects in the schema that are mentioned in the `object__c` format. Schema information takes precedence over Apex code in the current file.
- Custom metadata when it is a part of a prompt and uses the `__mdt` suffix. The metadata added to a prompt in this way is automatically included into the context to ground generations.

## Prompt Writing Tips

We’re listing some tips for prompt writing and also providing you with some examples that help you craft your prompts. An effective prompt consists of these four parts:

1. **The Action**: The task you want the AI to accomplish.

For example:

> _Create an Apex batch class named "OpenPositionMatcher"_.

Reviewer 3: So from what I understand the LLM understands markdown syntax.  I think we need to include that in this doc somewhere that when the user is referring to `code` they should use back tick and if they want to include a block of code it should use ```.

> 2. **Context Details**: Information about the context you want the AI to use. This includes important context such as org metadata and awareness about the presence of custom objects and fields in your org. Run **SFDX:Refresh SObjects Definitions** to retrieve org metadata into your org. You can then add custom fields to your existing query.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. **Context Details**: Information about the context you want the AI to use. This includes important context such as org metadata and awareness about the presence of custom objects and fields in your org. Run **SFDX:Refresh SObjects Definitions** to retrieve org metadata into your project. You can then add custom fields to your existing query.
```

For example:

> _Create an Apex batch class named "OpenPositionMatcher" that processes custom objects "Position\_\_c" records created within the past 15 days. The class aims to match these open positions with suitable candidates based on their skills._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Create an Apex batch class named "OpenPositionMatcher" that processes "Position\_\_c" records created within the past 15 days. The class aims to match these open positions with suitable candidates based on their skills._
```

3. **Best Practices**: Details about best practices you want the AI to follow. For example, security and formatting best practices and so on.

For example:

> _Create an Apex batch class named "OpenPositionMatcher" that processes custom objects "Position\_\_c" records created within the past 15 days. The class aims to match these open positions with suitable candidates based on their skills. Order the results by candidate names in descending order. Make sure the generated code follows security best practices. Separate operators with a new line._

Reviewer 3: One thing that's kind of complex about this is we're altering the users prompt to be a more general LLM prompt.  From what I understand the final thing we ask the LLM to do is the action.  I don't know for sure, but logically it would make sense to include all direction first, then end with the final action to be performed.  So I might reorder the above to be something like

Results should be ordered by candidate names in descending order.  Ensure the generated code follows security best practices. Separate operators with a new line.  Create an Apex batch class named "OpenPositionMatcher" that processes custom objects "Position\_\_c" records created within the past 15 days. The class aims to match these open positions with suitable candidates based on their skills. 

This might be crazy talk :)

4. **Additional Context**: Any additional information that you want to provide.

For example:

> _Create an Apex batch class named "OpenPositionMatcher" that processes custom objects "Position\_\_c" records created within the past 15 days. The class aims to match these open positions with suitable candidates based on their skills." Order the results by candidate names in descending order. Make sure the generated code follows security best practices. Separate operators with a new line. The class is used in an LWC component._

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Create an Apex batch class named "OpenPositionMatcher" that processes custom objects "Position\_\_c" records created within the past 15 days. The class should match these open positions with suitable candidates based on their skills." Order the results by candidate names in descending order. Make sure the generated code follows security best practices. Separate operators with a new line. The class is used in an LWC component._
```

The final prompt gives you a response that looks something like this:

```
public with sharing class OpenPositionMatcher {

    @AuraEnabled(cacheable=true)
    public static List<Candidate__c> matchSkills(String positionId) {
        try {
            Position__c position = [SELECT Id, Skills__c FROM Position__c WHERE Id = :positionId WITH SECURITY_ENFORCED];
            List<String> skills = position.Skills__c?.split(';');

            if (skills != null && !skills.isEmpty()) {
                List<Candidate__c> candidates = [
                    SELECT Id, Name, Skills__c
                    FROM Candidate__c
                    WHERE Skills__c IN :skills
                    WITH SECURITY_ENFORCED
                    ORDER BY Name DESC
                ];

                return candidates;
            }
        } catch (Exception e) {
            System.debug(e.getMessage());
            throw new AuraHandledException(e.getMessage());
        }

        return new List<Candidate__c>();
    }
}

```
## Example Prompts and Context Descriptions
<table>
    <tr>
      <th>Prompt</th>
      <th>Context Description</th>

>     </tr>

Reviewer 3: missing opening `<tbody>` here

    <tr>
      <td>Create a class named `OpportunityController`. Create a method called `getNumberofOpportunities`. The method takes `AccountId` as a parameter and returns the number of opportunities for that `AccountId`. I’m working on an LWC component. Make sure the SOQL uses security best practices like user mode data operations.</td>

>       <td <ul>

Reviewer 3: @sbudhirajadoc missing a `>` on the td on this row.  Might be the root of our table rendering issue.

Author: Thanks @gbockus-sf . I'll look into it. It renders correctly in preview so it's hard to know how it will finally render until it's published...I am leaning towards getting rid of the table and conveying the information some other way.

          <li>Specific mention of an LWC component.</li>
          <li>Specific mention of security best practices.</li>
        </ul></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Write an Apex class called `VehiclePartInventoryClass` for the custom object `Vehicle__c`, which has a many-to-many relationship with the `Parts__c` custom object. The class includes a method called `getVehiclesByParts` that accepts a Set of Strings. This method retrieves all the vehicle records associated with each part and returns a `Map<String, List<Vehicle__c>>`, where the key is the part name, and the values are lists of vehicles that have the specified part installed.</td>
     <td> 
        <ul>
          <li>Specify custom object names including `__c`</li>
          <li>Specify method input and output types and any logic that you wish to see in the method implementation.</li>
        </ul></td>
     </tr>
</td>

> </tr>

Reviewer 3: No `<tr>` wrapping the below `<td>`

<td>Create a method that takes a `settingName` as input and returns the value of the first record in `Setting__mdt` where `QualifiedApiName` matches the `settingName`; return null if no records are found.</td>

> <td> 

Reviewer 3: This `<td>` is never closed with `</td>`
